---
title: "Post 12"
layout: post
categories: Posts
---

## On Cash and Small Businesses:

Here is what some small businesses do with the cash they get from their daily sales: throughout the day, an employee has to drive to the business' bank to deposit a certain amount of cash they no longer want to keep stored in a safe at the business location. This is for security reasons, and so the cash would have to be transferred to the business' bank at some point, in any event. To point the obvious, this is necessary when dealing with cash- physical pieces of paper that represent units of monetary value. Here is what the point of telling this story is though: dealing with cash is essentially free and the money is available immediately once it's been deposited into the business' bank account.

Meanwhile, when it comes to the money the small business collects from customers in the form of debit card or credit card transactions, not only is there a waiting period for the transaction to fully clear, but also there are fees associated with these transactions that are paid directly by the business. 

For mainly these reasons, many small businesses prefer to get paid in cash and go so far as to charge a fee for credit card transactions (including debit card transactions!). In some cases, they also set a minimum purchase amount for customers who wish to pay with a card. And what these small businesses are doing is attempting to offset the fees mainly imposed by Visa and Mastercard.

Okay, now that I've set the stage, I hope it's clear what my point is going to be. This is pretty ridiculous and incredibly inefficient for small businesses. Something needs to be done about this right away! Which is why this is such a great opportunity to come up with a better system for allowing small business to collect payments without incurring needless fees that eat at their hard-fought earnings. 



